.TH DIABAIG 6 "February 2025" "@VERSION@" "Games Manual"
.SH NAME
diabaig \- Try not to get lost in the Great Winding Halls of Diabaig
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B diabaig
[
.B \-htvw
] 
[
.B \-L
.I loadfile
]
[
.B \-s 
.I seed
] 
[
.B \-S 
.I scorefile
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Diabaig is a traditional roguelike heavily inspired by the original rogue. The game places you in the role of an adventurer tasked with the retrieving a tooth from the jaws of the dragon inhabiting the halls of Diabaig. No reason was given for the purpose of this task, is it a trophy, is it valuable, does it have medical properties? You are not told. 

The graphics are strictly ncurses based and follow a similar scheme to most traditional roguelikes. Below is a typical game scene in which the player \fB'@'\fR is in one room with a goblin \fB'g'\fR and a magical scroll \fB'?'\fR. The room is connected to another through a door \fB'+'\fR and a corridor \fB'#'\fR, this room has a stairway \fB'>'\fR down to the next layer of the dungeon. All creatures are denoted with a letter and items are symbols: \fB'!'\fR potions, \fB'/'\fR weapons, \fB']'\fR armour, \fB'*'\fR gold and \fB':'\fR food. 

.nf
\f(CW
                       #     ------- 
         ---------     #     |.....|
         |......g|     #     |.>...|
         |..@....+###########+.....|
         |....?..|           |.....|
         ---------           -------
\fP
.fi
      
Move through the dungeon layers with the arrow keys, numpad or 'hjkl'. Diagonal movement is allowed and sometimes required, this can be done with either the numpad or 'yubn'. You descend a staircase with '>' and climb with '<'. Attack creatures that are aggresive towards you by running into them. To do a ranged attack, you must equip a bow, and half at least one arrow in your inventory. Fire the biw with 'f' and pick the direction. Additionally, weapons can be thrown at a target, some, like spears and daggers do much more damage when this is done. Daggers and arrows are consumable and you dont get thwm back if they hit the target.

Potions \fB'!'\fR are key to success in Diabaig. They can be drank \fB'd'\fR, thrown \fB't'\fR or applied \fB'a'\fR to a weapon and its effect passed to the target until the coating wears off. Potions are unidentified at first but performing any one of these actions will reveal the effect of the potion.

Scrolls \fB'?'\fR can be read \fB'r'\fR once, and some magic effect will be applied. THe scroll disappears after it is read. The effect is unidentified at first but can be identified by reading a scroll of identification.

Food \fB:\fR is required to sustain your character. You will likely find only meager pickings in the dungeon. Beware eating random mushrooms, they may cause adverse effects.

Gold \fB*\fR is the scoring mechanism in Diabaig. Collect as much as you can to beat the highscores.
              
Spells \fB1,2,3\fB are learned from magic scrolls. You can know three at any given time, but new ones can be learnt by forgetting one other. They are cast with \fB1,2,3\fR respectively. The strength and/or range of most spells increases with every use, so your character will become more proficient at using them in time. Some spells can be mastered after enough uses and they take on a much more powerdul form.



.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Display basic usage information for diabaig. Produce more detailed information by including \fB-vh\fR in arguments.
.TP
.B \-L \fIloadfile.save\fR
Load a previous save file. Caution, this file will be deleted if it initialises the game correctly. If option not given, the program will look for "\fIdiabaig.save\fR when continuing progress.
.TP
.B \-S \fIscorefile.scr\fR
Use a specific highscore file.
.TP
.B \-s \fIseed\fR
Set the random number generator \fIseed\fR. This needs to be a integar. If the same seed is given, the dungeon will generate the same way again.
.TP
.B \-t
Run diabaig in the test arena, where the map generation is turned off.
.TP
.B \-v
Produce verbose debug information during the runtimme of the program. This is mostly for development.
.TP
.B \-w
Launch the game in wizard mode. This offers the user the ability to spawn creatures, items and move around the dungeon unimpeded. Your score will not be added to the highscores list. This mode is intended either for development, testing or experiencing deeper layers of the dungeon.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Conor Nally.
.SH BUGS
Probably a bunch.
.PP
Version: @VERSION@
